>> Kyle Simpson: I want us to talk
about composition for just a moment.
Remember our reduce function,
there is another companion
function called, reduce right.
So reduce goes from left to
right through an array, but
reduce right goes from right to left.
You might remember earlier in the course.
Another thing that either went
left to right, or right to left.
And that's not accidental,
that's foreshadowing for this discussion.
Remember, we talked about a compose two.
We did look in our exercise at
the general compose utility, but
just think about composeTwo for a moment.
Look at the shape of composeTwo,
what shape does it have?
>> Kyle Simpson: It takes two inputs,
and what does it produce?
>> Kyle Simpson: A single output,
so what shape does that sound like?
>> Speaker 2: Reducer?
>> Kyle Simpson: Sound like a reducer
to anyone?
That's a reducer,
that can be used as a reducer.
What reduction does it do?
It takes two functions, and
it reduces them through,
what do we see on line 7,
what is line 7 doing?
>> Speaker 3: Going over the function.
>> Kyle Simpson: Look at specifically
line 7, what is line 7 doing?
>> Speaker 3: Returning a function.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's not,
that's line 6 what is line 7 doing?
>> Kyle Simpson: What is it called
when one function gets called, and
its output gets past to
another function call?
>> Speaker 4: Composition
>> Kyle Simpson: Composition,
that's a composition.
When fn1 is called with a value, and
its output is immediately passed to
another function, and
that's called a composition.
So the way that we are reducing those
two functions, is through composition.
That's a valid way of composing, and what
I want you to think about when you think
about reducing, reducing is a valid
implementation of composition.
If I asked write me a general compose now,
instead of writing a for loop and
keeping track of stuff now you
should be able to pull out ah-ha,
I can just use a reduce write.
We need to use reduce write,
because composition goes right to left.
If I said write me a pipe,
you could pull out the .reduce, and
reduce through the using
composeTwo as your composer.
So here's what that looks like.
We are doing reduce with the compose Two,
but
we can actually implement
compose with reduce right.
Here I'm calling the list
of functions FN's line 3,
I'm calling reduce right, and
the reducer that I'm using I've named here
invoke just [be]cause I couldn't
come up with a better name for it.
What it does, is it takes two
values of function and a value and
it reduces that function and
value through invocation.
If you were to describe
what is the composition,
I mean what is the reduction
that is happening?
Line 4, is taking a function and a value,
and reducing them through invocation,
which is to say passing the value to the
function, and then returning that result.
So our reduction is an indication, and
that's how we can implement a compose
across a list of functions as a reduction,
as a right reduction basically.
Line 9 we make f which is compose of div3,
null2, add1.
F of 8 gives a 6, because 8 plus
1 multiplied by 2 becomes 18,
divided by 3 becomes 6.
>> Kyle Simpson: As some homework, I want
you to write a pipe function for yourself,
and use the regular reduce utility, okay?